Welcome to the APFly Application produced by Firefly Software (2018). Contact our team of programmers at fireflysmcs2020@gmail.com if you have any questions or concerns. APFly is an automatic file sorting, compiling, and sending application designed to make sending notification emails to teachers about the status of their AP class or classes’ participation in the AP test.


Step 1: Signing into your email

Simply type your email into the “Username” field and your  password into the “Password” field, then click the “Log In” button to set your credentials. APFly supports Gmail, Outlook, Hotmail, Yahoo, Verizon, and AOL emails.

APFly will does not store nor save the password for security reasons.


Step 2: Selecting a database file to upload

Click the button that says “Upload MER file” and browse through your documents to select the file you wish to upload. The file must be saved as a .mer and must follow the constraints which establish it as an appropriate AP file (the file format determined in the APFly SRS). 

The columns must be in the following order: "Student ID", Student name as "LAST, FIRST M.", "Period", "Teacher last name", "Course Title", "Test Name", "Registered (Y/N)"

There is no limit to the size of the file uploaded, but the larger the file, the longer it will take to send


Step 3: Selecting teachers and writing messages

After a file is successfully uploaded, the left window will fill with the boxes, each with the name of a teacher, their email and a button to change their email if incorrect, a checkbox, and a message box to send individually to that teacher. If no email is found on the online staff directory website, the user’s email will be chosen as the default. The checkbox is to select or deselect certain teacher from receiving the email when the user hits “Send” and the message box for each teacher can be left blank if no individual message is necessary. There is also a message box in the bottom of the screen which the user can enter a message into to send to all recipients. The sent-to-all message will appear first in the body of the email, then the individual message after a line break. There are “Select All” and “Deselect All” which simply check or uncheck every teacher’s checkbox.

Teachers that share the provided name with another teacher will have red emails.

The default message that is sent to all teachers is the following:
"Attached is a PDF containing the AP Registration information for your students. This is an automated email of APFly, the AP Registration notification app by Firefly Software."


Step 4: Sending

Click the “Send” button once all the desired checkboxes are checked and all the desired messages are written.
